subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/upgrading_version_5.adoc, before:

// Copyright 2018 the original author or authors.
//
// Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[upgrading_version_5]]
= Upgrading your build from Gradle 5.x

This chapter provides the information you need to migrate your Gradle 5.x builds to Gradle {gradleVersion}. For migrating from Gradle 4.x, complete the <<upgrading_version_4.adoc#upgrading_version_4, 4.x to 5.0 guide>> first.

We recommend the following steps for all users:

. Try running `gradle help --scan` and view the https://gradle.com/enterprise/releases/2018.4/#identify-usages-of-deprecated-gradle-functionality[deprecations view] of the generated build scan.
+
image::deprecations.png[Deprecations View of a Gradle Build Scan]
+
This is so that you can see any deprecation warnings that apply to your build.
+
Alternatively, you could run `gradle help --warning-mode=all` to see the deprecations in the console, though it may not report as much detailed information.
. Update your plugins.
+
Some plugins will break with this new version of Gradle, for example because they use internal APIs that have been removed or changed. The previous step will help you identify potential problems by issuing deprecation warnings when a plugin does try to use a deprecated part of the API.
+
. Run `gradle wrapper --gradle-version {gradleVersion}` to update the project to {gradleVersion}.
. Try to run the project and debug any errors using the <<troubleshooting.adoc#troubleshooting, Troubleshooting Guide>>.

[[changes_5.1]]
== Upgrading from 5.0 and earlier

=== Potential breaking changes

The following changes were not previously deprecated:

==== Signing API changes
Input and output files of `Sign` tasks are now tracked via `Signature.getToSign()` and `Signature.getFile()`, respectively.

==== Collection properties default to empty collection

In Gradle 5.0, the collection property instances created using `ObjectFactory` would have no value defined, requiring plugin authors to explicitly set an initial value. This proved to be awkward and error prone so `ObjectFactory` now returns instances with an empty collection as their initial value.

==== Worker API: working directory of a worker can no longer be set

Since JDK 11 no longer supports changing the working directory of a running process, setting the working directory of a worker via its fork options is now prohibited.
All workers now use the same working directory to enable reuse.
Please pass files and directories as arguments instead. See examples in the <<custom_tasks.adoc#worker_api, Worker API documentation>>.

==== Changes to native linking tasks

To expand our idiomatic <<lazy_configuration.adoc#, Provider API>> practices, the install name property from `org.gradle.nativeplatform.tasks.LinkSharedLibrary` is affected by this change.

- `getInstallName()` was changed to return a `Property`.
- `setInstallName(String)` was removed. Use `Property.set()` instead.

==== Passing arguments to Windows Resource Compiler

To expand our idiomatic <<lazy_configuration.adoc#, Provider API>> practices, the `WindowsResourceCompile` task has been converted to use the Provider API.

Passing additional compiler arguments now follow the same pattern as the `CppCompile` and other tasks.

==== Copied configuration no longer shares a list of `beforeResolve` actions with original

The list of `beforeResolve` actions are no longer shared between a copied configuration and the original.
Instead, a copied configuration receives a copy of the `beforeResolve` actions at the time the copy is made.
Any `beforeResolve` actions added after copying (to either configuration) will not be shared between the original and the copy.
This may break plugins that relied on the previous behaviour.

==== Changes to incubating POM customization types

- The type of `MavenPomDeveloper.properties` has changed from `Property<Map<String, String>>` to `MapProperty<String, String>`.
- The type of `MavenPomContributor.properties` has changed from `Property<Map<String, String>>` to `MapProperty<String, String>`.

==== Changes to specifying operating system for native projects

The incubating `operatingSystems` property on native components has been replaced with the link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/language/cpp/CppComponent.html#getTargetMachines()[targetMachines] property.

### Change in behavior for tasks extending `AbstractArchiveTask` or subtypes (`Zip`, `Jar`, `War`, `Ear`, `Tar`) 

The `AbstractArchiveTask` has several new properties using the <<lazy_configuration.adoc#provider-files-api-reference,Provider API>>. Plugins that extend these types and override methods from the base class may no longer behave the same way. Internally, `AbstractArchiveTask` prefers the new properties and methods like `getArchiveName()` are façades over the new properties.

If your plugin/build only uses these types (and does not extend them), nothing has changed.

////
The following breaking changes will appear as deprecation warnings with Gradle 5.X:
 *
////

=== Deprecated classes, methods and properties

Follow the API links to learn how to deal with these deprecations (if no extra information is provided here):

 * Setters for `classes` and `classpath` on link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/plugin/devel/tasks/ValidateTaskProperties.html[`ValidateTaskProperties`]

 * There should not be setters for lazy properties like link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/file/ConfigurableFileCollection.html[`ConfigurableFileCollection`].  Use `setFrom` instead. For example,
----
    validateTaskProperties.getClasses().setFrom(fileCollection)
    validateTaskProperties.getClasspath().setFrom(fileCollection)
----

////
== Changes in detail

[[rel5.X:title]]
=== [5.X] Title

Details...
////

Commit message:

add preamble to 5.2 release notes
- add release features
- add note about no breaking changes to the upgrade guide

subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/upgrading_version_5.adoc, after:

// Copyright 2018 the original author or authors.
//
// Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[upgrading_version_5]]
= Upgrading your build from Gradle 5.x

This chapter provides the information you need to migrate your Gradle 5.x builds to Gradle {gradleVersion}. For migrating from Gradle 4.x, complete the <<upgrading_version_4.adoc#upgrading_version_4, 4.x to 5.0 guide>> first.

We recommend the following steps for all users:

. Try running `gradle help --scan` and view the https://gradle.com/enterprise/releases/2018.4/#identify-usages-of-deprecated-gradle-functionality[deprecations view] of the generated build scan.
+
image::deprecations.png[Deprecations View of a Gradle Build Scan]
+
This is so that you can see any deprecation warnings that apply to your build.
+
Alternatively, you could run `gradle help --warning-mode=all` to see the deprecations in the console, though it may not report as much detailed information.
. Update your plugins.
+
Some plugins will break with this new version of Gradle, for example because they use internal APIs that have been removed or changed. The previous step will help you identify potential problems by issuing deprecation warnings when a plugin does try to use a deprecated part of the API.
+
. Run `gradle wrapper --gradle-version {gradleVersion}` to update the project to {gradleVersion}.
. Try to run the project and debug any errors using the <<troubleshooting.adoc#troubleshooting, Troubleshooting Guide>>.

[[changes_5.2]]
== Upgrading from 5.1 and earlier

=== Potential breaking changes

none

[[changes_5.1]]
== Upgrading from 5.0 and earlier

=== Potential breaking changes

The following changes were not previously deprecated:

==== Signing API changes
Input and output files of `Sign` tasks are now tracked via `Signature.getToSign()` and `Signature.getFile()`, respectively.

==== Collection properties default to empty collection

In Gradle 5.0, the collection property instances created using `ObjectFactory` would have no value defined, requiring plugin authors to explicitly set an initial value. This proved to be awkward and error prone so `ObjectFactory` now returns instances with an empty collection as their initial value.

==== Worker API: working directory of a worker can no longer be set

Since JDK 11 no longer supports changing the working directory of a running process, setting the working directory of a worker via its fork options is now prohibited.
All workers now use the same working directory to enable reuse.
Please pass files and directories as arguments instead. See examples in the <<custom_tasks.adoc#worker_api, Worker API documentation>>.

==== Changes to native linking tasks

To expand our idiomatic <<lazy_configuration.adoc#, Provider API>> practices, the install name property from `org.gradle.nativeplatform.tasks.LinkSharedLibrary` is affected by this change.

- `getInstallName()` was changed to return a `Property`.
- `setInstallName(String)` was removed. Use `Property.set()` instead.

==== Passing arguments to Windows Resource Compiler

To expand our idiomatic <<lazy_configuration.adoc#, Provider API>> practices, the `WindowsResourceCompile` task has been converted to use the Provider API.

Passing additional compiler arguments now follow the same pattern as the `CppCompile` and other tasks.

==== Copied configuration no longer shares a list of `beforeResolve` actions with original

The list of `beforeResolve` actions are no longer shared between a copied configuration and the original.
Instead, a copied configuration receives a copy of the `beforeResolve` actions at the time the copy is made.
Any `beforeResolve` actions added after copying (to either configuration) will not be shared between the original and the copy.
This may break plugins that relied on the previous behaviour.

==== Changes to incubating POM customization types

- The type of `MavenPomDeveloper.properties` has changed from `Property<Map<String, String>>` to `MapProperty<String, String>`.
- The type of `MavenPomContributor.properties` has changed from `Property<Map<String, String>>` to `MapProperty<String, String>`.

==== Changes to specifying operating system for native projects

The incubating `operatingSystems` property on native components has been replaced with the link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/language/cpp/CppComponent.html#getTargetMachines()[targetMachines] property.

### Change in behavior for tasks extending `AbstractArchiveTask` or subtypes (`Zip`, `Jar`, `War`, `Ear`, `Tar`) 

The `AbstractArchiveTask` has several new properties using the <<lazy_configuration.adoc#provider-files-api-reference,Provider API>>. Plugins that extend these types and override methods from the base class may no longer behave the same way. Internally, `AbstractArchiveTask` prefers the new properties and methods like `getArchiveName()` are façades over the new properties.

If your plugin/build only uses these types (and does not extend them), nothing has changed.

////
The following breaking changes will appear as deprecation warnings with Gradle 5.X:
 *
////

=== Deprecated classes, methods and properties

Follow the API links to learn how to deal with these deprecations (if no extra information is provided here):

 * Setters for `classes` and `classpath` on link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/plugin/devel/tasks/ValidateTaskProperties.html[`ValidateTaskProperties`]

 * There should not be setters for lazy properties like link:{javadocPath}/org/gradle/api/file/ConfigurableFileCollection.html[`ConfigurableFileCollection`].  Use `setFrom` instead. For example,
----
    validateTaskProperties.getClasses().setFrom(fileCollection)
    validateTaskProperties.getClasspath().setFrom(fileCollection)
----

////
== Changes in detail

[[rel5.X:title]]
=== [5.X] Title

Details...
////
